In this video, we will continue exploring how deep learning works, in particular by understanding
errors, loss functions, and cost functions.
So here is another diagram of our friendly little perceptron.
Again, the idea is that we feed data into the model and it computes the weighted linear sum of those
inputs, which then passes through a non-linear activation function.
And that gives us the model's prediction about the world.
So this is a prediction about, you know, the sale price of a house or prediction about the probability
that someone has a certain disease, or the probability that a picture contains, for example, a human
face.
Of course, we want this prediction to be accurate, but the model is not guaranteed to give the correct
answer.
In other words, expectations do not always match the reality.
So y hat is the model's prediction of the world.
And we want to compare that to Y which is the reality of the world.
Now this value y is also sometimes called the target or the target variable.
This is the value that we want the model output to match.
So again going back to our example of predicting whether students will pass or fail an exam, the model
might predict that the student will pass the exam with a probability of 98%, but the student actually
fails the exam.
So that is a pretty large difference between the model's prediction and the reality.
And that difference is an error.
It's a mistake.
And we need to quantify that error in order for the model to learn.
Here is a table that illustrates how these errors might be computed.
So in this table each row corresponds to a different sample.
So an individual student.
This is the model's output.
The probability that the model gives that the student will pass the exam.
This is the reality or the target variable which is dummy coded as 0 or 1.
So failing the exam or passing the exam.
And this is the error here.
Now this error is literally the difference.
Just the subtraction of y hat from y.
And here in this column I'm showing that you can binarize the error to 0 or 1 according to the magnitude
of this error.
So in this case we can say that any errors with a magnitude of greater than 0.5 are considered to be
an error.
So you can see that the binarized errors are actually easier to interpret, but they are less sensitive
to the size of the error.
These continuous errors over here are more sensitive because they distinguish between large errors and
small errors.
Now the sign of these errors can be a little bit annoying, but it's actually pretty easy to deal with.
As you'll see in a moment.
So most of the time the learning is based on the continuous error.
But evaluating the model performance both during and after training is based on binarizing the errors.
So we use the continuous errors to teach the models and the binarize errors to evaluate the models.
And what do we actually do with these errors?
Well they are used to generate losses which is done using the loss functions.
There are many loss functions that have been introduced in deep learning, but most of them are basically
just variants of these two.
So these are the two most commonly used loss functions.
Mean squared error is used for continuous data when the model outputs a numerical prediction.
Some examples here.
So let's say the model is predicting how tall someone is, or the sale price of a house or the temperature.
Let's say if this were like a climate model.
So the model is making a prediction about a specific numerical value.
And then the MSE or the mean squared error function is pretty straightforward.
It's just the difference between the model prediction and the reality or the target variable.
Just like what I showed in the table in the previous slide, you can see that it's squared here.
This difference is squared.
Squaring makes sure that everything is positive valued.
And it also links the MSE to other methods in machine learning and statistics like regression and Anova
and variance, and also to geometric concepts like Euclidean distance.
Now, this factor of one half over here is simply a convenience factor.
You'll learn more about this in the next video.
But essentially we need to compute the derivative of this function.
Now this is a polynomial.
So the two in the exponent comes down here as a multiplication.
And so having the one half here cancels out the two.
Okay.
So this is MSE loss.
The other major type of loss function is called cross entropy, which is also sometimes called the logistic
error function.
This is used for categorical data.
When the model outputs a probability.
So some examples are when the model is predicting whether a patient has a disease.
Whether there is a picture of a of a cat in an image, or whether a review of a restaurant is positive
or negative.
And so the loss function here is cross entropy, which is exactly the same formula that you saw earlier
in the math section.
Now there previously I used the letters P and Q but it's the same principle.
So y hat is the output of the model.
It's the probability of the sample belonging to a particular category.
And y is the truth or the target variable of whether that sample comes from that particular category.
And that's going to be dummy coded as 0 or 1.
Also note the minus sign in here.
Now because y hat is going to be a number between 0 and 1.
The cross entropy expression is going to be a negative number.
So multiplying the entire loss function by minus one basically just flips the sign, which helps us
to interpret the result because we want to minimize the loss.
Okay.
So these are the two main loss functions.
Now these loss functions work per sample.
That is you plug in the data from one sample one data sample into the model.
You get one output from that one sample.
And then you compute the loss for that one sample.
Now you've probably heard the term cost function.
So what is a cost function and how does it relate to the loss function.
Well there's actually nothing fancy going on here.
In fact the cost function is literally just the average of the losses for many different samples.
So let's say you have N samples.
Maybe this is 30.
Let's say you have 30 students in your course.
So you compute the loss for each individual student average all of those losses together.
And you call that the cost.
People typically use this fancy letter J.
Now in my opinion, this is needlessly complicated terminology, because people often get confused between
the loss and the cost when they are really the same thing, just with different names.
By the way, I just want to mention briefly that some people will leave out the minus sign in this cross
entropy loss here, and then add a minus sign here when computing the cost.
Either way is fine.
It's just different notation that you might see in different books or videos or blog posts or whatever.
Notation is often a little bit arbitrary, and different people have different personal preferences.
Okay.
Anyway, so now you know about errors and losses and costs.
And what do we actually do with these?
Well, we use the cost function as an optimization criterion in the training.
In fact, the entire goal of deep learning is to find the set of weights that minimizes the cost function.
Thus the entire goal of training deep learning models can be written like this.
So find the set of W all of the weights in the model that minimize the cost.
And now here I'm just rewriting the same equation but substituting the losses for the cost.
And here is yet again the same exact equation.
But now I'm replacing y hat with f of x and w where f it corresponds to the function that can describe
the entire deep learning model.
X is the inputs, and w is all of the weights from the entire model, all of the learnable parameters.
Now perhaps you are wondering why we optimize based on the cost and not based on the individual losses.
The main answer is that training the model on individual losses is time consuming, and it can lead
to overfitting, which is a concept that you will learn about later on.
But there is also a downside to averaging over too many losses, which is decreased sensitivity, particularly
when there is a lot of sampling variability.
So in fact, what is often done in practice is training models using what's called batches or groups
of samples.
So let's say you have 2000 samples.
You might train using batches of 20 or 30.
So you would average together 20 losses from 20 different samples instead of averaging together all
2000 of your samples.
Anyway, this is all stuff you're going to learn about in the next section.
I just wanted to introduce you to the idea here.
And so now you know about losses and costs.
The last major piece of the puzzle is backpropagation, which is the topic of the next video.